There's a broader concept of the '[semantic web](https://juggl.io/Semantic+Obsidian "semantic web")' which you may have come across before.  The concept is as old as the web itself, and has gone through various iterations (RDF, JSON-LD).  At the core, the idea is that whatever knowledge an individual has accumulated is a window over an essentially infinite graph representing all human knowledge.

The core challenge with a semantic web approach is how do you make sense of new data that you're encountering, and know where to plug it in to your own graph?  How do we translate between the formats used by various entities?  JSON-LD and RDF essentially give you tools to describe the schema of your data in a globally understandable way.  E.g. this is a [Person](https://schema.org/Person "Person"), which has certain standard properties...  this is an [Address](https://schema.org/PostalAddress "Address"), this is an [Event](https://schema.org/Event "Event") that happened somewhere in the world.

One of the exciting things about working like a framework like this is that even if adoption is slow, you can create your own adapters, and potentially even infer the schemas with machine intelligence.  As a result you would get well formatted entries pulled into your calendar, address book, etc.  It could create a far more interactive world where we focus on "what" we want to exchange, and the interpretation of "how" to view and interact with it is molded by the user's preferences.

It at least gives us a language for the kind of shared meaning that we know is underlying our collective knowledge.